♪♪
You know
what today is, don'tcha?
Oh, i know
what today is.
How much do you
dread this day?
This is the day
i dread.
Maybe the friend
can save us.
Were you able to
talk her out of it?
No.
Then what good
are you, lady?
I'm no good.
Cheerleading tryouts
today!
I have better control
of my body now,
And when my brain tells
my arms and legs
what to do,
They try real hard now.
This is gonna be
my year, guys.
Give me a "q"!
Give me a "u"!
Give me an
i-n-c-yyy!
(theme music playing)
♪ i've been waiting ♪
♪ for a day
like this to come ♪
♪ struck like lightning ♪
♪ my heart's beating like
a drum ♪
♪ on the edge ♪
♪ of something wonderful ♪
♪ face to face with changes ♪
♪ what's it all about? ♪
♪ life is crazy ♪
♪ but i know
i can work it out ♪
♪ 'cause i got you ♪
♪ to live it with me ♪
♪ i feel all right,
i'm gonna take on the world ♪
♪ light up the stars,
i've got some pages to turn ♪
♪ i'm singing "oh-o-o" ♪
♪ oh, oh, oh, oh ♪
♪ take on the world,
take on the world ♪
♪ take on the world ♪
♪ take on the world,
take on the world ♪
♪ take on the world. ♪
Great job, samantha.
-Thanks!
-You're the best.
She's the worst one here.
She's the worst?
Samantha's the one
i gotta beat
to make the team.
I'm better than her,
right?
Explain to me
what's the matter
with you.
I'm for your
entertainment pleasure.
How many years
you gonna do this to me?
What am i doing to you?
Every year i have to
tell you that you're good.
You know what?
You're not good.
You're not as good
as samantha.
You're not as good as heather.
You're not as good as any girl
With any name,
or doesn't have a name,
Or doesn't exist,
or is a rock.
Well i don't like that
she doesn't have a name.
I would call her roxie.
Every year, you try out.
Every year, coach kelly
tells you not to come back
because she hates you.
Coach kelly
does not hate me.
Matthews, i hate you.
Why would you come here?
Why are you wearing that?
This is the year
i'm going to make
the team.
It's really not.
You've been trying
to make this team since
third grade pee wees,
And they don't let me
reject anybody in
third grade pee wees.
It hurts their self-esteem.
Then why did you
get to reject me?
'cause that's the year
we passed the riley rule.
(gasps)
i have my own rule.
How much rejection
can you take?
Hey, lebron james was cut
from his high school
basketball team.
Lebron went straight to
the nba from high school.
I new it was something.
Coach kelly, i'm gonna
win you over.
-Stay out of sports.
-Oh, you.
"cheerleading tryouts
will span three days
after school.
"on day one, applicants
will be judged
on coordination."
-Do i have that?
-No.
"day two, tumbling."
-I tumble.
-Not on purpose.
"and if you make it
to day three,
"we will see how you
dance with the team."
That i can do.
If you make it
to day three.
Cheerleaders:
Give me a "q,"
give me a "u,"
Give me a
i-n-c-y,
quincy!
Quincy,
we can fly!
Whoo!
(whistle blows)
All right, ladies,
i've got 13 trying out.
I need 12.
Matthews,
Why don't you make it
easy on all of us
and quit right now,
So we don't have to
go through three days
of torture?
No, thank you.
Riley.
Know why nobody else
is even trying out?
She already has her team.
These are the same girls
since pee wees.
These girls are the reason
you don't make the team.
May we get started,
please?
You heard her.
Launch, fly, catch.
Team, launch.
Jenkins, fly.
Matthews, catch.
Catch!
Hi.
Oh, catch.
You alive, jenkins?
Jenkins:
I'm fine, coach.
I'm fine, coach!
All right,
let's try that again.
Matthews, you fly.
Jenkins, you catch.
Can i trust you?
Oh, yeah. I know exactly
what i'm gonna do.
I'm gonna die!
Who invented this?
Thomas edison,
the wizard of menlo park.
After how many tries?
-Six!
-No!
Anybody here think he
invented it after
his first try?
-I do!
-No!
All right, i was
trying something,
And now i'm going back
to the way things were.
Why didn't he invent
the light bulb on
his first try?
'cause it was dark!
Got your back.
Did the best
i could.
I'm fine.
Nothing to see, here.
Go on with your business.
Uh, but wouldn't the ice
work better
If you put it
on something?
I see.
You were supposed to
talk her out of this.
Every year, riley
tries out for cheerleaders.
Oh, riley, you are
no cheerleader.
That is a terrible thing
to say to me, zay.
I meant it
as a compliment.
Back in texas, zay had
a little incident
with a cheerleader.
It wasn't just
a little incident.
It was true love,
but i'm over it now.
Vanessa!
Matthews, you're her father.
It's your job to
talk her out of this.
Thomas edison saw the need
for a new kind of light source
for the home.
See, people relied on
kerosene lanterns,
And he tried a lot more
than six ways
To come up with
an electric light
without success.
-You know what he said?
-"i have failed!"
-No!
-Yeah!
"i have not failed.
"i've just found 10,000 ways
that will not work."
But edison
finally succeeded.
That's why we have
light in here.
-Because he never gave up.
-And neither should i.
Mmm, way to put her
back on track, matthews.
Why'd you have to pick today
to teach us about edison?
Yeah, that's something,
isn't it?
Okay, when we were at home,
you didn't want her to do this.
Nobody did.
Yeah, because
as her father,
I've gone through this
with her half a dozen times.
And it kills me every year.
Then what are you doing?
In this room,
i'm your teacher.
You've made it to day two?
-Yeah!
-Whoo!
And you brought your own
cheering section?
I'm just here to
pick up the pieces.
I'm here because
i wanna see this.
i believe in riley.
I'm here because i need to
show my cheerleader enemies
They have
no hold on me.
Hi, zay.
(giggles)
you know my name.
I hold in my hand,
A bell.
This is the riley bell.
I have my own bell.
When you quit,
and you will,
You will ring this bell,
and this travesty will be over.
-I will never
ring that bell.
-Uh-huh.
Day two, tumbling.
This is the day we learn
what kind of control you have
over your bodies.
-Maya.
-I want you to live.
All right, ladies. Round off,
back handspring, yamashida.
Stick the landing.
-Lucas!
-Yamashida, man.
All right, ladies.
Show her how it's done.
Fair.
What was that?
Hi, there.
Did i see
a little something?
-No.
-You sure, jenkins? You sure
i didn't see a little--
-No, no, no, no.
-Eh, eh, eh, eh,
-No, no.
-Eh.
Give me your foot.
I don't want to
give you my foot.
(speaks russian),
jenkins.
I'm sorry.
Matthews.
-Farkle!
-Nyet!
What are you doing?
That's my donut!
Tumble.
Okay.
You ready for me now,
champ?
-Yeah.
-You get two attempts.
That wasn't twice?
Wanna show us what you can do,
or you wanna ring that bell?
Goodbye.
All: Goodbye.
(yells)
All you had to do,
was ring the bell.
Did you ring the bell?
No.
We rang the bell for you.
Was that good enough?
No.
Well, i have never been
more proud of you.
You made it through day two
without ringing the bell.
No one expects you
in school today, okay?
So we'll see you
when you're back in one piece.
What's the matter
with you?
Ring the bell.
Ring any bell.
Ring the doorbell.
I'll go tell coach kelly
you rang the bell,
And we can all wake up
from this horrible nightmare.
Is she alive?
Did she make it
through the night?
Riley, we are
so proud of you.
Is she alive?
Please, stop now.
We all want you to stop.
Is-- is she alive?
Tell her, zay.
Zay?
So, what?
You guys just
break into her apartment,
and that's appropriate?
Riley, are you alive?
No one can get an answer.
All of you? All of you
just come in here?
That's what i'm saying.
She can't even move.
This is on you,
matthews.
-Why is that, maya?
-'cause you're talking out of
both sides of your head.
At home, you tell her to quit,
At school, you teach
her to never give up.
What? Her teacher
and her father disagree?
Well, maybe it's that they
both want what's best for her.
Wait, which one of you
do you hope she listens to?
Here? I want her to
listen to her father.
Her father
wants to protect her.
Her father wants her
in this bed
All day where nothing bad
can happen to her.
Quit, riley.
Your father doesn't want you
to get hurt.
What does her teacher want?
Her teacher wants
the same thing everyday.
He wants her to
have an education.
To learn about the world.
To find out who she is.
And her dad doesn't want her
to find out who she is?
No, no!
Zay, i don't blame you for
not wanting to be
a part of this insanity.
Thank you.
It's much worse
than you think, actually.
Why?
Well, i wouldn't do this
without an invitation,
but, uh...
I was raised
better than you,
And apparently
smarter than you,
But this could
go on all day.
Looks like she listened
to her teacher.
Coach kelly!
Matthews, still standing?
I came early.
It's just you and me.
Give me the
inspirational speech.
Give you the what now?
The team isn't here.
Show me who you
really are, jackie.
Jackie?
Give me my speech.
Help me do better.
Matthews,
These girls are finely tuned
precision instruments
Who have dedicated
their entire lives to this.
You are a pineapple.
I'm going to
hug you, now.
Don't you come near me.
Do you think these girls
think of anything else?
What is this, samantha?
Sloppy day?
I'll do better, coach.
You have invaded
my personal space.
And you have invaded
my heart, coach kelly.
You and i both know that
i am going to be a cheerleader.
That is what you want from me,
and i know your true soul.
What's happening?
Coach kelly, launch.
Matthews, fly.
-Who's catching?
-It's a surprise!
Oh, i love surprises.
I'm gonna die!
Incredibly, welcome
to day three.
I can't believe this,
but how much are you
rooting for her right now?
As much as always.
Guys, you know
how this ends.
How could we let it
get this far?
Don't you even know
your best friend?
There's no stopping her.
Yes, i know
my best friend,
And i don't want
my best friend
to get hurt.
Well, maya, she's
always there for us.
It's our turn now.
Yeah, we shouldn't stop her
from doing what she wants.
We just need to be here
when she needs us.
You're right.
I know you're right.
I just...
I don't want her
to fail.
And if she does, you'll be
the first person she wants
to put an arm around her.
Okay, i'm not going
anywhere.
This is our
choreographed routine
that we have perfected
Over all our years together.
Newcomer.
Have you learned
the steps?
-(very loudly) yes, coach!
-Wow.
I was about to say,
"i can't hear ya,"
But you got me.
Okay, places, everybody.
(music plays)
Okay.
"riley matthews?"
I'm the only one
who made the team?
No, honey.
That's not what
that means.
Oh.
I'm really tired, maya.
I know you are, riles.
You did great.
Wanna go home?
Yeah.
Come in.
I'm very sorry for
what happened to you, riley,
And i'm proud of you
for trying your best.
And i'm glad that
you're still alive.
Thanks, auggie.
And thank you, mom,
for sitting with me.
Aw, thank you for being
who you are.
Where's dad?
He left for school
a long time ago.
Is he disappointed in me?
Of course not.
I think he just really wants
to be your teacher right now.
New day?
Absolutely.
Mr. Matthews?
Yes, ms. Matthews?
You got something for me?
Because i'm asking
my teacher.
'cause i've had
a rough few days.
"i have not failed,
i've just found 10,000 ways
that will not work."
Thomas edison couldn't
hold a job when he was young,
And no one thought he would
amount much to anything.
Thomas edison never made it
as an inventor...
Until he did.
Only you get to decide
when you quit.
No well intended friend,
No parent who's only trying
to protect you,
And no teacher, who's supposed
to bring out the best in you,
Can make you turn
your back on something
you're passionate about.
Because a teacher
who brings you to failure,
Who wants you to quit,
Who hasn't taught
you anything,
Is... No teacher at all.
But my name was
on the paper.
Did you quit?
I didn't ring the bell.
I couldn't. It was gone.
I stole it.
Maya, you stole the bell?
Did you think any of us
were gonna let you
ring this bell?
Riley,
If you let somebody
make you quit,
No matter what
position of power
that person is in,
If you only try
9,000 times,
You just end up
sitting in the dark.
Do you want to
sit in the dark, riley?
Thank you,
mr. Matthews.
Anytime.
Oh, my poor,
little girl.
Matthews.
What are you doing here?
I want to be on
the cheerleading team.
-You didn't make it.
-Just because you say
i didn't make the team,
Doesn't mean
i didn't make the team.
Yeah, it does.
It's actually the thing that
determines who's on the team,
and you.
Because i say,
"you're not good enough."
I want to be on
the cheerleading team.
-As what?
-You need 12.
What if one of your girls
gets hurt? I could be
an alternate.
My girls don't get hurt.
They're machines.
-Ow.
-'scuse me?
Ow.
Put that one hop little leg
back on the ground, jenkins.
-Ow.
-What?
Cut it out, samantha.
Jenkins, she didn't even know
how to catch you.
She hasn't been coached
like we have.
Yeah, maybe if
you coached her.
Why are you doing this?
Why would you
encourage her like this?
We're cheerleaders.
We know spirit
when we see it.
I think you're
gonna need this.
Matthews...
You finally broke me.
(cheering)
Uh, you guys may want
to see this.
Oh, whatcha got there, aug?
This is perez hilton.
Mostly, i write about
the rich and famous,
But today i think
you'll find inspiration
In the talentless
and clumsy.
I'm both.
How long have you
been trying to make the
cheerleading team, riley?
All my life, perez.
And where is the coach
who finally caved in?
Outta my face, hilton.
Feisty.
This is a story
about a little girl
who wouldn't give up,
And won the admiration
of her teammates.
(music plays)
Okay.
I think i see
what we got here.
I couldn't have done this
without my old friends.
Or my new friends.
So, dream your dreams,
little ones,
Because this is a world
Where nothing is impossible.
And isn't that
the kind of world
You want to live in?